Fundus photos are an in vivo signature of an individual. Even "red free" fundus photos, which are the most prevalent from office or 
clinic fundus cameras, represent a distinct representation of the "pigments" of the human retina. 
The following is a listing of the
retinal pigments in close order to their prominance: (1) melanin, a brownish pigment of the retinal pigment epithelium and choroid,
quite a pervasive
cross sectional area of the posterior segment of the eye, 
(2) xanthophil, a yellowish pigment composed of
lutein and xanthin, two highly concentrated proteins in the area of central vision, called the macula, 
(3) rod pigment: rhodopsin
(4) cone pigments: red, green and blue pigments
(5) oxyhemoglobin arterial blood: bright red
(6) carboxyhemoglobin venous blood: dark red
(7) optic nerve: varies with ethnicity: white to pink to orange to comibnations therof
The histograms of the fundi whether from diabetic retinopathy studies or from searches in Google are 
qualitative representations of ranges of normal to diverse disease disease conditions, from central retinal artery occlusion
to branch vein occlusion. Fundus reflectometry, which is not present in this study, is a quantitative method of identifying the 
retinal fundus characteristics.

As of this date, 25 Oct 2022, numerous red, green and blue histograms have been generated from pine tools.com in stages 
of DR as well as hypertensive retinopathy, vein and artery occlusion. 

The goal is to compare and contrast the histograms
with respect to red, green, and blue alterations from normal fundus photos to diseased fundus photos with respect to x axis
mound or spike length patterns, Y axis amplitudes under different stages of disease, and areas under the curve in 
different diagnostic
entities' histogram patterns. If necessary, cumulative distribution functions or plots will be crafted to provide greater
quantitative understaniding to the area under the curve in histograms. At some point we will have to learn how much of a 
difference the red free photos make in developing our model of risk in DR. For that matter, we may have to learn how much of
a difference the use of the iphone in photographing the retina makes a difference. However, these are all benefits of this
type of prospective study.

Dr. James Carson, AI director Texas U will be reviewing the data and will eventually be looking to try to automate the collection.
This will set the stage for a literature based intelligence, based on fundus photos, histograms, and their analytic output for
test and trial comparisions of data drived from the Aloaha Eye Clinic in Hawaii, Dr. Jivin Titntisira, and the NYEE, Drs. Avnish
Deobhakta and Ted Smith doctors over the next years' collection of serial fundus photos in diabetics.
Dr. Deobhakta has a optos, wide field fundus camera as well as the usual 45 degree fundus camera. I will have to learn what
type fundus camera Dr. Tintisira has in Hawaii.



 





